Docs: Sway Toolchain (#5)
FuelLabs/fuel-docs: src/fuel-toolchain.md

# The Fuel Toolchain

The full stack of tools designed and blessed by FuelLabs for enabling/assisting the Fuel application development experience.

Tooling Overview:
- `fuel-core`: The Fuel VM node client.
- `forc`: The Fuel Orchestrator. Includes Sway compiler, packaging and plugin support.

Official forc plugins:
- `forc-fmt`: The Sway code formatter.
- `forc-lsp`: The Sway Language Server Protocol implementation.
- `forc-explore`: Runs the Fuel block explorer.

> - `forc-client`: For deploying and running Sway apps via CLI.

Reviewer: Perhaps we can also add `forc-wallet` to this list of plugins? It's very early days, though we're about to publish a `0.1.0` and improve the README a little: https://github.com/FuelLabs/forc-wallet/pull/29. `forc-wallet` is a forc plugin that can be used to initialise a wallet on local storage, create accounts for the wallet and sign transaction hashes.

```suggestion
- `forc-client`: For deploying and running Sway apps via CLI.
- `forc-wallet`: For initializing a wallet, adding accounts and signing transactions.
```

Author: SGTM!

> - `fuelup`: The FuelLabs toolchain manager - an easy approach to retrieving all of the above.

Reviewer: `fuelup` might be better off under it's own heading!

It handles the installation of the whole fuel toolchain, including `forc`, `fuel-core` and our set of vetted plugins.

It can be thought of as a small, fuel-specific package manager that makes it easy to install everything required for fuel dev. If you're familiar with the Rust ecosystem, it can be thought of as FuelLabs' equivalent of Rust's `rustup` tool.

My bad, I could have clarified this a little better in our notes for you!

For more specific documentation on the toolchain, check out the Sway docs [here](https://fuellabs.github.io/sway/v0.19.2/introduction/sway-toolchain.html).

## Building on Fuel

Developers can get everything they need to start creating Sway applications for the Fuel VM with a single toolchain, blessed by the same teams that create the FuelVM and Sway language.

> We take a curated, “batteries-included”-yet-modular approach to providing tooling. Other tools for Ethereum development are built on top of the existing EVM, and the languages (Yul, Solidity, etc.) are built by different teams than the tooling (ganache, hard hat, foundry). In contrast, Fuel tooling has the benefit of being tightly coupled with the compiler, FuelVM, SDK, etc..This allows for tighter integration and a more unified development environment that can talk with the other parts of the fuel ecosystem. One example is in the VS Code plugin, where the language server interacts directly with the sway compiler. You can also spin up a local instance of fuel-core and, in the future, interact with your smart contracts via the type script SDK, all from the plugin.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should remove the 'etc..' part and just say. 

> In contrast, Fuel tooling has the benefit of being tightly coupled with the compiler, FuelVM, and SDKs.

> We take a curated, “batteries-included”-yet-modular approach to providing tooling. Other tools for Ethereum development are built on top of the existing EVM, and the languages (Yul, Solidity, etc.) are built by different teams than the tooling (ganache, hard hat, foundry). In contrast, Fuel tooling has the benefit of being tightly coupled with the compiler, FuelVM, SDK, etc..This allows for tighter integration and a more unified development environment that can talk with the other parts of the fuel ecosystem. One example is in the VS Code plugin, where the language server interacts directly with the sway compiler. You can also spin up a local instance of fuel-core and, in the future, interact with your smart contracts via the type script SDK, all from the plugin.

Reviewer: The wording here felt a little strange so I had a go at rewording / expanding on this a little. I think the VSCode plugin example might still feel a little out-of-place / unnecessary? Let me know your thoughts!

```suggestion
One common issue developers face when working within the Ethereum ecosystem is how to choose a set of tools to get started. Historically, Ethereum's founders have been particularly focused on the low-level details of the protocol, the EVM and to a lesser extent Solidity, leaving the job of creating accessible, high-level tooling to the community. As a result, many disparate projects have appeared from different 3rd parties that aim to provide these high-level solutions such as truffle, dapptools, hard hat, foundry and many more. It can be difficult for new Ethereum developers to navigate this space and to feel comfortable knowing they're making the right choice in selecting one of these toolchains.

In contrast, FuelLabs take a curated, “batteries-included”-yet-modular approach to providing tooling. We aim to provide a comprehensive, standardised, blessed set of tools that cover not only the lower levels of the stack (like protocol and VM implementations) but the higher level too (such as package management, editor support, common-use plugins and much more). We aim to do so in a manner that is open, transparent and welcoming of external contributions.

To clarify, the goal is not at all to discourage 3rd parties from extending the fuel ecosystem. Rather, we aim to make the official tool-chain so good as to inspire contributions upstream and to collaborate under one unified developer ecosystem. For those cases where our tooling falls short and additions or extensions are required, we provide an extensible plugin system through `forc`, enabling community creativity in a manner that is easily-shareable and familiar to fellow Fuel devs.  

The Sway VS Code plugin is a great example of our vision for a unified developer experience. The plugin interacts with the Sway language server, a forc plugin that communicates directly with the Sway compiler and shares much of its code-base. The plugin also allows for spinning up a Fuel node, displaying its status in real-time and (in the near future) interact with your smart contracts via the type script SDK. A complete solution from entirely within the plugin, from one team with a shared vision.

You can start experimenting with the Fuel toolchain by following [fuelup's Quickstart guide](https://fuellabs.github.io/fuelup/master/installation/index.html#quickstart).
```

# The Fuel Toolchain

> The full stack of tools designed and blessed by FuelLabs for enabling/assisting the Fuel application development experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The full stack of tools designed and build by Fuel Labs for enabling/assisting the Fuel application development experience.
```

Tooling Overview:
- `fuel-core`: The Fuel VM node client.
- `forc`: The Fuel Orchestrator. Includes Sway compiler, packaging and plugin support.

> Official forc plugins:

Reviewer 3: Not sure if we want to use the word "official" here. We want to avoid some notion of things being "official" since what's official or not is decided by the community. Fuel Labs is just one contributor among many to the Fuel protocol.

- `forc-fmt`: The Sway code formatter.
- `forc-lsp`: The Sway Language Server Protocol implementation.
- `forc-explore`: Runs the Fuel block explorer.
- `forc-client`: For deploying and running Sway apps via CLI.
- `forc-wallet`: For initializing a wallet, adding accounts and signing transactions.

> - `fuelup`: The FuelLabs toolchain manager - an easy approach to retrieving all of the above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `fuelup`: The Fuel toolchain manager - an easy approach to retrieving all of the above.
```
